Batch Issuance (#789)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/credential-issuance-low-level.rst

  * **Refresh Token Flow**: The Wallet Instance requests a new Access Token at the Token Endpoint of the PID/(Q)EEA Provider.
  * **Re-issuance Flow**: Following updates to an already stored Digital Credential, the Wallet Instance requests a refresh of the Digital Credential at the Credential Endpoint of the Credential Issuer.
  * **Deferred Issuance Flow**: The Credential Issuer may require time to issue the requested Digital Credential, due to the Authentic Sources data provisioning rules, and allows the Wallet to retrieve the requested Credential in the future.

>   * **Batch Credential Issuance Flow**: It enables the issuance of a batch of one or more Digital Credential. Digital Credentials that are issued in a batch MUST share the same format and contain the same set of attributes about the Holder, but MUST contain different Cryptographic Data to achieve unlinkability between the Digital Credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Batch Credential Issuance Flow**: It enables the issuance of a batch of one or more Digital Credential. Digital Credentials that are issued in a batch MUST share the same format and contain the same set of attributes about the Holder. Each Credential MUST contain different Cryptographic Data to achieve unlinkability between the Digital Credentials. 
```
Should the credential issuer check that the crypto material provided for each requested credential is unique?
If yes and if it is not so, should the VCI reject the request? Using which error and with which motivation?

Author: So, in the OpenID4VCI spec, they formulate it as ``SHOULD``, however, here, I prefer to say ``MUST`` to enforce for the sake of unlinkability. We can reject the request using 400 bad request with the motivation of ``invalid_proof`` as we already have [here](https://italia.github.io/eid-wallet-it-docs/versione-corrente/en/credential-issuer-endpoint.html#credential-response). Does it work for you in this way?

Author: I will apply the change and add a check based on the ``jwk`` to ensure that the keys are unique per the key proof in step 19.

.. note::
    **Standard or Batch Credential Issuance:** 
      

>     The user can configure the Wallet Solution to issue digital credentials in either batch or standard mode and define the prefered batch size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The User can configure the Wallet Solution to issue Digital Credentials in either batch or standard mode and define the prefered batch size.
```

..     PID/(Q)EAA Issuance - Detailed flow

> Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the Credential Issuer as defined in Section :ref:`trust:Trust Evaluation Mechanism`. Additionally, in the case of Batch Credential issuance, the Wallet Instance MUST check the support of batch issuance by looking for the “batch_credential_issuance” object in the Credential Issuer metadata, from where the Wallet Instance can get the ``batch_size`` value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the Credential Issuer as defined in Section :ref:`trust:Trust Evaluation Mechanism`. Additionally, in the case of Batch Credential issuance, the Wallet Instance MUST check the support of batch issuance by looking for the ``batch_credential_issuance`` object in the Credential Issuer metadata, from where the Wallet Instance can get the ``batch_size`` value. 
```

> Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the Credential Issuer as defined in Section :ref:`trust:Trust Evaluation Mechanism`. Additionally, in the case of Batch Credential issuance, the Wallet Instance MUST check the support of batch issuance by looking for the “batch_credential_issuance” object in the Credential Issuer metadata. From this object, the Wallet Instance can extract the ``batch_size`` value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the Credential Issuer as defined in Section :ref:`trust:Trust Evaluation Mechanism`. Additionally, in the case of Batch Credential issuance, the Wallet Instance MUST check the support of batch issuance by looking for the “batch_credential_issuance” object in the Credential Issuer metadata, from where the Wallet Instance can get the ``batch_size`` value. 
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/credential-jwt-proof-payload.json
  :language: JSON

> **Step 17 (Fresh Digital Credential Keys Generation)**: The Wallet Instance generates N fresh credential key pairs, where the number of key pairs (N) is determined by the value defined in the ``batch_size``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 17 (Fresh Digital Credential Keys Generation)**: The Wallet Instance generates N fresh Credential key pairs, where the number of key pairs (N) is determined by the value defined in the ``batch_size``.
```

> **Step 18 (Proofs of Possession of Credentials)**: The Wallet Instance MUST generate N key proofs using provided ``c_nonce`` in **Step 13** and one for each credential in the batch. The number of key proofs (N) is defined by the ``batch_size`` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 18 (Proofs of Possession of Credentials)**: The Wallet Instance MUST generate N key proofs using provided ``c_nonce`` in **Step 13** and one for each Credential in the batch. The number of key proofs (N) is defined by the ``batch_size`` value.
```

.. note::
  The ``c_nonce`` value in all the jwt proofs is identical and it is not needed to obtain separate nonce values per proof. 

> **Step 19 (Batch Credential Request)**: The Wallet Instance sends a request for the batch of Digital Credential to the Credential endpoint. This request MUST include the Access Token, DPoP Proof JWT, Credential type, proofs (which demonstrates possession of the keys). The proofs parameter MUST be an object that contains two or more evidence of possession of the cryptographic key materials to which the issued batch of Digital Credential will be bound. To verify the proofs, the Credential Issuer conducts the same checks as already defined in **Step 16**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 19 (Batch Credential Request)**: The Wallet Instance sends a request for the batch of Digital Credential to the Credential endpoint. This request MUST include the Access Token, DPoP Proof JWT, Credential type, proofs (which demonstrates possession of the keys). The proofs parameter MUST set using a JSON object containing two or more evidence of possession of the cryptographic key materials to which the issued batch of Digital Credential will be bound. To verify the proofs, the Credential Issuer conducts the same checks as already defined in **Step 16**.
```

.. code-block:: http

  POST /credential HTTP/1.1
    Host: eaa-provider.example.org
  Content-Type: application/json
  Authorization: DPoP Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU
  DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
      VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
      nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R
      1JEQSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiJlMWozVl9iS2ljOC1MQUVCIiwiaHRtIj
      oiR0VUIiwiaHR1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9yZXNvdXJjZS5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9wcm90ZWN0Z
      WRyZXNvdXJjZSIsImlhdCI6MTU2MjI2MjYxOCwiYXRoIjoiZlVIeU8ycjJaM0RaNTNF
      c05yV0JiMHhXWG9hTnk1OUlpS0NBcWtzbVFFbyJ9.2oW9RP35yRqzhrtNP86L-Ey71E
      OptxRimPPToA1plemAgR6pxHF8y6-yqyVnmcw6Fy1dqd-jfxSYoMxhAJpLjA

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/batch-credential-request.json
  :language: JSON

The decoded content of ``jwt`` elements in the ``jwt`` array is similar to what is explained in **Step 16**.

> **Steps 21-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Steps 20-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):
```

> **Steps 20-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 20-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the Credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):
```

> **Steps 20-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the Credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 20-24 (Credential Response)**: The Credential Issuer MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested Credential. The Credential Issuer MUST validate all the key proofs that are provided within ``proof`` (**Step 15**) or ``proofs`` (**Step 18**) parameter that the new Credentials SHALL be bound to, according to `OpenID4VCI`_ Appendix F1. If all checks succeed, the Credential Issuer returns the issued Credential inside the ``credentials`` parameter. The number of elements in the Credentials array matches the number of the keys that the Wallet Instance has provided either via the ``proof`` parameter (**Step 16**) or ``proofs`` parameter (**Step 19**). The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the Credential(s):
```

  :language: JSON

Below is a non-normative example of a successful response containing a batch of Credentials in SD-JWT VC format:

.. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/sd-jwt-batch-credential-response.json
  :language: JSON

.. note::

>   When the Wallet Instance receives a new batch of the same credential with the same claims, the wallet MUST delete previous credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When the Wallet Instance receives a new batch of the same Credential with the same claims, the Wallet MUST delete previous Credentials. 
```

.. note::

>   If the requested Credential cannot be issued immediately and requires more time, the Credential Issuer SHOULD support the Deferred Flow (step 24) as specified in Section :ref:`credential-issuance-endpoint:Deferred Endpoint`. Additionally, in the case of batch issuance, the same ``transaction_id`` retrieves all Credentials that are requested in the batch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the requested Credential cannot be issued immediately and requires more time, the Credential Issuer SHOULD support the Deferred Flow (step 27) as specified in Section :ref:`credential-issuance-endpoint:Deferred Endpoint`. Additionally, in the case of batch issuance, the same ``transaction_id`` retrieves all Credentials that are requested in the batch.
```

.. note::
   In some cases there are multiple sets of Credential data available in the Authentic Source system, and the User may be interested in obtaining more than one Credential. In these cases the Issuance Flow remains the same as described in :ref:`credential-issuance-low-level:Low-Level Issuance Flow`. In the Token Response (**Step 11**), the Credential Issuer generates a unique identifier (``credential_identifier``) for each Credential Dataset provided in the `AttributeClaims` parameter of the e-service PDND :ref:`authentic-source-endpoint:Get Attribute Claims`. Therefore, the ``credential_identifiers`` array within the ``authorization_details`` object contains the identifiers of all Credentials available for issuance. The Wallet sends a Credential Request (**Step 16**) for each identifier, obtaining multiple distinct Credentials that are individually shown to the User for the acceptance. Finally, the Credential Issuer is notified by the Wallet of the outcome through the :ref:`credential-issuance-endpoint:Notification Endpoint`.

.. note::

>    For batch-issued Digital Credentials, a single ``notification_id`` covers the entire batch-issued credentials. The notification response (e.g. ``credential_accepted`` or ``credential_stored``) applies to all Credentials—any partial failure is treated as a batch failure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For batch-issued Digital Credentials, a single ``notification_id`` covers the entire batch-issued Credentials. The notification response (e.g. ``credential_accepted`` or ``credential_stored``) applies to all Credentials, any partial failure is treated as a batch failure. 
```
